♪ Mud ♪
♪ Sand ♪
♪ Water ♪
♪ Straw ♪
♪ Faster ♪
♪ Mud and lift ♪
♪ Sand and pull ♪
♪ Water ♪
♪ And raise up Straw ♪
Faster!
♪ With the sting of the whip ♪
♪ on my shoulder ♪
♪ With the salt of my sweat ♪
♪ on my brow ♪
♪ Elohim, God on high ♪
♪ Can you hear your people cry? ♪
♪ Help us now this dark hour ♪
♪ Deliver us ♪
♪ Hear our call, deliver us ♪
♪ Lord of all, remember us ♪
♪ Here in this burning sand ♪
♪ Deliver us ♪
♪ There's a land you promised us ♪
♪ To the Promised Land ♪
♪ My son, I have nothing ♪
♪ I can give ♪
♪ But this chance that you ♪
♪ may live ♪
♪ I pray we'll meet again ♪
♪ If He will deliver us ♪
♪ Deliver us ♪
♪ Hear our prayer ♪
♪ Deliver us from despair ♪
♪ These years of slavery ♪
♪ Grow too cruel to stand ♪
♪ Deliver us ♪
♪ There's a land you promised us ♪
♪ Out of bondage ♪
♪ And deliver us ♪
♪ To the Promised Land ♪
♪ Hush now, my baby ♪
♪ Be still, love, don't cry ♪
♪ Sleep as you're rocked ♪
♪ by the stream ♪
♪ Sleep and remember ♪
♪ My last lullaby ♪
♪ So I'll be with you ♪
♪ When you dream ♪
♪ River, oh, river ♪
♪ Flow gently for me ♪
♪ Such precious cargo you bear ♪
♪ Do you know somewhere ♪
♪ He can live free? ♪
♪ River, deliver him there ♪
♪ Brother, you're safe now ♪
♪ And safe may you stay ♪
♪ For I have a prayer ♪
♪ just for you ♪
♪ Grow, baby brother ♪
♪ Come back someday ♪
♪ Come and deliver us too ♪
Mommy.
Come, Ramses.
We will show Pharaoh
your new baby brother.
Moses.
♪ Deliver us ♪
♪ Send a shepherd ♪
♪ to shepherd us ♪
♪ And deliver us ♪
♪ To the Promised Land ♪
♪ Deliver us ♪
Ha-ha!
Faster, you beasts!
You run like mules!
Hey, Ramses,
how would you like
your face carved on a wall?
Someday, yes.
How about now?
You almost killed me!
Aw, come on.
Where is your sense of fun?
Oh, it's fun you want.
Moses?
Come on, Moses. Admit it.
You've always looked up to me.
Yes, but it's not
much of a view.
Hyah!
Hey!
Second born,
second place.
Not for long.
Jump!
You don't think we'll get in
trouble for this, do you?
No, not a chance.
Why do the gods
torment me
with such reckless,
destructive,
blasphemous sons?
Father,
hear what I...
Be still! Pharaoh speaks.
I seek to build an empire,
and your only thought
is to amuse yourselves
by tearing it down.
Have I taught you nothing?
You mustn't be so hard on yourself,
Your Majesty.
You're an excellent teacher.
It's not your fault
your sons learned nothing.
- Well, they learned blasphemy.
- True.
Father, the fault is mine.
I goaded Ramses on,
and so I am responsible.
Hmm. "Responsible."
And do you know the meaning
of that word, Ramses?
I understand, Father...
And do you
understand the task
for which your birth
has destined you?
The ancient traditions.
When I pass into
the next world,
then you will be
the morning and evening star.
One damaged temple
does not destroy
centuries of tradition.
But one weak link
can break the chain
of a mighty dynasty!
You have my leave to go.
Father.
Father?
You know it was
really my fault.
Must you be so hard on him?
Moses, you will never
have to carry a burden
like the crown I will pass
to Ramses.
He must not allow himself
to be led astray,
not even by you, my son.
All he cares about
is your approval.
I know he will live up
to your expectations.
He only needs
the opportunity.
Maybe.
Maybe so.
Go now.
I shall see you both tonight.
Well, that went well.
Just go away.
Could have been worse.
"The weak link
in the chain."
That's what he called me.
Well, you are rather pathetic.
Irresponsible,
ignorant of the traditions.
He practically accused me
of bringing down the dynasty.
Yeah, I can see it now.
There go the pyramids!
You can laugh about it.
Statues cracking
and toppling over,
the Nile drying up.
Single-handedly,
you will manage to bring the greatest
kingdom on Earth to ruin.
Tell me this, Moses.
Tell me this.
Why is it that every time
you start something,
I'm the one who
ends up in trouble?
Man! Oh!
It's Ramses.
You're in trouble,
young man.
Ramses, get down here!
- I think you owe us an apology!
- Oh!
My new thing!
I am so upset!
- You might as well.
- You'll pay for this!
We're gonna
tell the pharaoh!
We're telling
the pharaoh and that's...
Oh!
Look at me.
I'm drenched again.
Hey, I figured it out.
You know what your
problem is, Ramses?
- What?
- You care too much.
And your problem is
you don't care at all.
Oh, in that case, I suppose you
care a lot more than I do
that we're late for the banquet,
for example.
I'm done for.
Father will kill me.
Don't worry.
Nobody will even
notice us coming in.
"Nobody will even notice."
Ah, the young princes.
Ramses, you were just named
Prince regent.
You are now responsible for
overseeing all the temples.
I suggest you get over there,
and thank your father.
Apparently, Moses,
someone thought he just
needed the opportunity.
My lord Pharaoh,
I propose that the high
priests offer tribute
to their new regent.
- An excellent idea.
- Hotep, Huy!
- Huy.
- Hmm?
- The Midian girl.
- That's a good idea.
Go get her.
By the power of Ra,
we present for your
delectation and delight
an exotic apparition
stolen from a faraway land.
We offer you
this delicate desert flower.
Let us inspect
this desert flower.
More like a desert cobra.
Not much of a snake charmer,
are you?
That's why I give her to you.
No, no, no,
that's generous, but...
I won't be
given to anyone.
Especially an arrogant,
pampered palace brat!
Are you gonna
let her talk to you like that?
You will show the proper respect
for a Prince of Egypt.
But I am showing you
all the respect you deserve.
None!
No. Wait!
- Be still.
- Untie this rope!
I demand you set me free!
- Be still.
- Let go!
As you wish.
You there,
have her dried off
and sent to Prince Moses' chambers.
If it pleases you, Father,
my first act as regent
is to appoint Moses
as royal chief architect.
Uh...
Well.
Right.
Shh.
Come on.
Guards.
Prince Moses.
Uh...
There is a man
tied up in my room.
- Well, look into it.
- Right away, sire.
Please,
I need water.
I have a long journey
ahead of me.
May God protect you.
Thank you.
Oh! Oh, I'm sorry.
I'm so sorry. I...
Oh, please forgive me. I...
I didn't expect
to see you here,
of all places, at our door.
Mmm.
At last!
- "At last"?
- Didn't I tell you, Aaron?
Didn't I tell you?
I knew he would return to us
when he was ready.
Miriam, do you
want us flogged?
- I knew you cared about our freedom.
- Miriam.
"Freedom"? Why would I
care about that?
Because you're...
You're our brother.
- What?
- They...
They never told you?
Who never told me what?
But you're here.
You must know.
Be careful, slave.
Oh, my good Prince.
Um, she's...
She's exhausted
from the day's work.
Uh, not that it was too much.
We... We quite enjoyed it.
But she's confused,
and knows not
to whom she speaks.
I know to whom I speak, Aaron.
I know who you are.
- And you are not a Prince of Egypt.
- Miriam.
What did you say?
Your Highness,
pay her no heed.
Come, Miriam. May I discuss
something with you?
No, Aaron.
- No. Please, Moses, you must believe.
- That's enough.
- You were born of my mother, Yocheved.
- Stop it.
You are our brother!
Now, you go too far.
- You shall be punished.
- No.
Please, uh, Your Highness.
She's ill. She's very ill.
We beg your forgiveness.
- Please, Miriam, let us go.
- No, Aaron.
Our mother set you adrift in
a basket to save your life!
Save my life? From who?
Ask the man that
you call Father.
- How dare you?
- God saved you to be our deliverer.
- Enough of this.
- And you are, Moses.
- You are the deliverer.
- I said enough!
You will regret this night.
♪ Hush now, my baby ♪
♪ Be still, love, don't cry ♪
♪ Sleep as you're rocked ♪
♪ by the stream ♪
♪ Sleep and remember ♪
♪ My last lullaby ♪
♪ So I'll be with you ♪
♪ When you dream ♪
Stop him.
Did you see him?
It's Moses.
Moses.
♪ Gleaming in the moonlight ♪
♪ Cool and clean ♪
♪ and all I've ever known ♪
♪ All I ever wanted ♪
♪ Sweet perfumes of incense ♪
♪ And graceful rooms ♪
♪ of alabaster stone ♪
♪ All I ever wanted ♪
♪ This is my home ♪
♪ With my father ♪
♪ Mother, brother ♪
♪ Oh, so noble, oh, so strong ♪
♪ Now I am home ♪
♪ Here among my trappings ♪
♪ and belongings I belong ♪
♪ And if anybody doubts it ♪
♪ They couldn't be more wrong ♪
♪ I am a sovereign Prince ♪
♪ of Egypt ♪
♪ A son of the proud history ♪
♪ that's shown ♪
♪ Etched on every wall ♪
♪ Surely this is ♪
♪ all I ever wanted ♪
♪ All I ever wanted ♪
The Hebrews grew
too numerous.
They might have
risen against us.
Father, tell me
you didn't do this.
Moses, sometimes,
for the greater good,
sacrifices must be made.
"Sacrifices"?
Oh, my son.
They were only slaves.
Moses?
Is this where you found me?
Moses, please try
to understand.
So... So everything I thought,
everything I am, is a lie.
No.
You are our son,
and we love you.
Why did you choose me?
We didn't, Moses.
The gods did.
♪ This is your home, my son ♪
♪ Here the river brought you ♪
♪ And it's here the river meant ♪
♪ To be your home ♪
♪ Now you know the truth, love ♪
♪ Now forget and be content ♪
♪ When the gods ♪
♪ send you a blessing ♪
♪ You don't ask ♪
♪ why it was sent ♪
Last night, the gods
granted me a vision.
I'm not merely going to
restore this temple.
I will make it more grand,
more splendid than any other
monument in upper or lower Egypt.
I'll make you...
Moses. Look,
fate has turned our
little misadventure
into a great opportunity.
Get up, old man.
I know Father will be so
pleased with what you and I...
Put your back into it!
Faster!
And this is
just the beginning.
A gateway will open to an entire
new city of white limestone,
more dazzling than the sun.
And here, a statue of Hapi...
- I said, hurry!
- ...god of the Nile flanked by two great columned halls.
- Stop it!
- Miriam, no.
Somebody's got to stop this.
There's nothing
that we can do.
Let's raise
the roof over here...
Stop it. Stop.
Stop it. Leave that man alone!
Moses.
Out of my way.
Out of my way. Move!
Who did this?
Up there.
It's him. Up there.
Moses.
Moses, what's going on?
Moses!
- Moses.
- Let me go!
- No, wait.
- You saw what happened.
I just killed a man.
We can take care of that.
I will make it so
it never happened.
Nothing you can say
can change what I've done.
I am Egypt,
the morning
and the evening star.
If I say day is night,
it will be written,
and you will be what
I say you are.
I say you are innocent.
What you say does not matter.
You don't understand.
I can't stay here any longer.
Moses...
No! All I've ever known
to be true is a lie.
I'm not who you think I am.
What are you talking about?
Go ask the man
I once called Father.
Moses?
Please.
Goodbye, brother.
Moses!
No.
Hey, wait.
Please.
What are you doing?
Help! Stop!
- Let our sheep drink!
- Go away!
- Leave us alone!
- Get away from me!
- Get away!
- Stop it!
- We'll do what we want.
- My father's the high priest of Midian...
- Get away!
- ...and you'll be in big trouble.
Hey, you.
Aren't these your camels?
- Hut-hut.
- No, no.
- No, no, wait!
- No!
- Wait, stop!
What are
you girls doing?
We're trying to get the funny
man out of the well.
Trying to get the funny man
out of the well.
Well, that's one
I've never heard before.
Oh, my. Oh...
Don't worry down there.
We'll get you out. Hold on.
You.
Huh?
Mmm-hmm.
That's why Papa says
she'll never get married.
You don't have to do this.
Ladies, please, I'm really...
I'm really quite...
No, not there, please.
That tickles.
Ladies, you've cleaned
every inch of me.
Whoa! I... I was wrong.
Let me through. Let me through.
I want to see him.
Ah!
You are most welcome.
You should not be a stranger
in this land.
You have been sent
as a blessing.
And tonight,
you shall be my honored guest.
My father,
Jethro, High Priest of Midian.
Psst.
Sit with me.
All right.
Psst.
Not yet.
Oh, sorry.
My children,
let us give thanks
for this bountiful food.
And let us also give thanks
for the presence
of this brave young man
whom we honor here tonight.
Please, sir,
I wish you wouldn't.
I've done nothing in my life
worth honoring.
First, you rescue
Tzipporah from Egypt,
then you defend
my younger daughters
from brigands.
You think that is nothing?
It seems you do not know
what is worthy of honor.
♪ A single thread in a tapestry ♪
♪ Though its color ♪
♪ brightly shine ♪
♪ Can never see its purpose ♪
♪ In a pattern of ♪
♪ the grand design ♪
♪ And the stone that sits ♪
♪ on the very top ♪
♪ Of the mountain's mighty face ♪
♪ Does it think ♪
♪ it's more important ♪
♪ Than the stones ♪
♪ that form the base? ♪
♪ So how can you see ♪
♪ What your life is worth ♪
♪ Or where your value lies ♪
♪ You can never see ♪
♪ through the eyes of man ♪
♪ You must look at your life ♪
♪ Look at your life ♪
♪ through heaven's eyes ♪
Dance with me.
No, I don't know how.
♪ A lake of gold ♪
♪ in the desert sand ♪
♪ Is less than ♪
♪ a cool, fresh spring ♪
♪ And to one lost sheep ♪
♪ a shepherd boy ♪
♪ Is greater ♪
♪ than the richest king ♪
♪ If a man lose ♪
♪ everything he owns ♪
♪ Has he truly lost his worth? ♪
♪ Or is it the beginning ♪
♪ Of a new and brighter birth ♪
♪ So how do you measure ♪
♪ the worth of a man ♪
♪ In wealth or strength ♪
♪ or size ♪
♪ In how much he gained ♪
♪ or how much he gave? ♪
♪ The answer will come ♪
♪ The answer will come to him ♪
♪ who tries ♪
♪ To look at his life ♪
♪ through heaven's eyes ♪
♪ And that's why we share ♪
♪ all we have with you ♪
♪ Though there's little ♪
♪ to be found ♪
♪ When all you've got is nothing ♪
♪ There's a lot to go around ♪
♪ No life can escape ♪
♪ being blown about ♪
♪ By the winds of change ♪
♪ and chance ♪
♪ And though you never know ♪
♪ All the steps ♪
- Dance with me.
- No, I... No.
♪ You must learn ♪
♪ to join the dance ♪
♪ So how do you judge ♪
♪ what a man is worth ♪
♪ By what he builds or buys ♪
♪ You can never see ♪
♪ with your eyes on Earth ♪
♪ Look through heaven's eyes ♪
♪ Look at your life ♪
♪ through heaven's eyes ♪
I love you.
It's too early for this.
Moses.
Here I am.
Take the sandals
from your feet,
for the place on which you
stand is holy ground.
Who are you?
I am that I am.
I don't understand.
I am the God
of your ancestors,
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
You were born
of my mother, Yocheved.
You are our brother.
What do you want with me?
I have seen the oppression
of my people in Egypt
and have heard their cry.
Stop it!
Leave that man alone!
So I have come down
to deliver them
out of slavery,
and bring them to a good land,
a land flowing with milk
and honey.
And so, unto Pharaoh,
I shall send you.
Me? Who am I to
lead these people?
They'll never believe me.
They won't even listen.
I shall teach you
what to say.
Let my people go!
But I was their enemy.
I was the Prince of Egypt,
the son of the man who
slaughtered their children.
You've... You've chosen
the wrong messenger.
How can I even speak
to these people?
Who made man's mouth?
Who made the deaf, the mute,
the seeing or the blind?
Did not I?
Now go!
Oh, Moses,
I shall be with you when
you go to the King of Egypt.
But Pharaoh will not listen.
So I will stretch out my hand,
and smite Egypt
with all my wonders.
Take the staff
in your hand, Moses.
With it, you shall
do my wonders.
I shall be with you, Moses.
Moses.
But, Moses,
you are just one man.
Tzipporah.
Please.
Look at your family.
They are free.
They have a future.
They have hopes and dreams,
and the promise
of a life with dignity.
That is what I want
for my people.
And that is why I must do the
task that God has given me.
I'm coming with you.
Ramses.
Moses?
Is it really?
- Moses, where have you been?
- Ramses.
I took you for dead.
Look at you.
- Pharaoh.
- Well, look at you.
What on Earth
are you dressed as?
Oh, Ramses,
it's so good to see you.
Excuse me, uh,
Your Majesty.
We are compelled to
remind you that this man
committed a serious crime
against the gods.
We are loathe to
bring it up, mind you.
Yet the law
clearly states
the punishment
for such a crime...
- Death.
- We hesitate to say it.
Be still.
Pharaoh speaks.
I am the morning
and the evening star.
Ramses.
It shall be as I say.
I pardon forever all crimes
of which he stands accused,
and will have it known
that he is
our brother Moses,
the Prince of Egypt.
Ramses.
In my heart,
you are my brother,
but things cannot be
as they were.
I see no reason why not.
You know I am a Hebrew,
and the God of the Hebrews
came to me.
What?
He commands that you
let His people go.
Commands?
Behold,
the power of God.
Well, impressive, but... Mmm.
Very well, Moses.
I'll play along.
Hotep. Huy.
Give this snake charmer
our answer.
♪ By the power of Ra ♪
♪ Mut ♪
♪ Nut ♪
♪ Khnum ♪
♪ Ptah ♪
♪ Nephthys ♪
♪ Nekhbet ♪
♪ - Sobek ♪
♪ - Sekhmet ♪
♪ - Sokar ♪
♪ - Selket ♪
♪ - Reshpu ♪
♪ - Wadjet ♪
♪ - Anubis ♪
♪ - Anukis ♪
♪ - Seshmu ♪
♪ - Meshkent ♪
♪ - Hemsut ♪
♪ - Tefnut ♪
♪ - Heket ♪
♪ - Mafdet ♪
♪ Ra, Mut, Nut, Ptah ♪
♪ Hemsut, Tefnut, Sokar ♪
♪ Selket, Seshmu ♪
♪ Reshpu, Sobek, Wadjet ♪
♪ Heket, Mafdet, Nephthys ♪
♪ Nekhbet ♪
♪ Ra ♪
♪ So you think you've got ♪
♪ friends in high places ♪
♪ With the power to put us ♪
♪ on the run ♪
♪ Well, forgive us these smiles ♪
♪ on our faces ♪
♪ You'll know what power is ♪
♪ when we are done ♪
♪ - Son ♪
♪ You're playing with ♪
♪ the big boys now ♪
♪ Playing with ♪
Oh, that's pretty.
♪ Every spell and gesture ♪
♪ Tells you who's the best ♪
♪ You're playing with ♪
♪ the big boys now ♪
♪ By the power of Ra ♪
♪ You're playing with ♪
♪ the big boys now ♪
♪ Mut, Nut, Khnum, Ptah ♪
♪ You're playing with ♪
♪ the big boys now ♪
♪ Hemsut, Tefnut, Sokar ♪
♪ Selket ♪
♪ Stop this foolish mission ♪
♪ Watch a true magician ♪
♪ Give an exhibition how ♪
♪ Pick up your silly twig, boy ♪
♪ You're playing with ♪
♪ the big boys now ♪
♪ By the power of Ra ♪
♪ Mut, Nut, Khnum, Ptah ♪
♪ Sobek, Sekhmet, Sokar ♪
♪ Selket ♪
♪ Anubis, Anukis, Hemsut ♪
♪ Tefnut, Meshkent, Mafdet ♪
♪ You're playing with ♪
♪ the big boys now ♪
♪ By the might of Horus ♪
♪ You will kneel before us ♪
♪ Kneel to our splendorous power ♪
♪ You put up a front ♪
♪ You put up a fight ♪
♪ And just to show ♪
♪ we feel no spite ♪
♪ You can be our acolyte ♪
♪ But first, boy, it's time ♪
♪ to bow ♪
♪ Kowtow! ♪
♪ Or it's your own grave ♪
♪ you'll dig, boy ♪
♪ You're playing with ♪
♪ the big boys now ♪
♪ Playing with the big boys ♪
♪ Playing with the big boys now ♪
They love it.
All right, Moses.
I know you.
What's this really about?
Ramses,
look.
What do you see?
A greater Egypt
than that of my father.
That is not what I see.
Moses, I cannot change
what you see.
I have to maintain
the ancient traditions.
I bear the weight
of my father's crown.
Do you still not understand
what Seti was?
He was a great leader.
His hands bore the blood
of thousands of children.
Slaves.
My people.
And I can no longer hide in
the desert while they suffer
at your hands.
So,
you have returned
only to free them.
I'm sorry.
Yes.
I had hoped, but...
I do not know this god.
Neither will I let
your people go.
Ramses, please,
you must listen...
I will not be the weak link.
Tell your people, as of today,
their workload
has been doubled,
thanks to your god.
Or is it thanks
to you?
It's Moses.
Moses.
So, Moses, how does it feel
when you get struck
to the ground?
I didn't mean to
cause you more pain.
I'm just trying to do
as God told me.
God?
When did God start caring
about any of us?
In fact, Moses, when did you
start caring about slaves?
Was it when you found out
that you were one of us?
Don't listen to him.
No, he's... He's right.
I did not see because I
did not wish to see.
Oh, you didn't see because
you didn't wish to see.
Ah.
Well, that makes everything
fine then, doesn't it?
Aaron, you shame yourself.
Miriam.
I'm so sorry.
Moses,
hear what I say.
I have been a slave
all my life,
and God has never answered
my prayers until now.
God saved you
from the river,
He saved you in
all your wanderings,
and even now,
He saves you from
the wrath of Pharaoh.
God will not abandon you.
So don't you abandon us.
Miriam, where are you going?
Miriam.
The ball disappears.
Now, where is it?
It's in his hand.
How about that?
Ramses!
Let my people go!
Still gnawing away
at that bone, are we?
Carry on.
You cannot keep ignoring us.
Enough. I will hear no more
of this Hebrew nonsense.
Bring him to me.
- Moses!
- No!
Take the staff
in your hand, Moses.
Father.
- It's...
- Blood!
Blood! Blood!
Hotep, Huy.
Explain this to me.
- Ah...
- Rest assured, Your Majesty.
Yes, we were going to demonstrate
the superior might of our gods.
Uh...
By the power of Ra.
Abandon this
futile mission, Moses.
I've indulged you long enough.
This must now be finished.
No, Ramses.
It is only beginning.
But, Moses,
didn't you see
what happened?
The priests did
the same thing.
Pharaoh still has the power
over our lives.
Yes, Aaron, it's true.
Pharaoh has the power.
He can take away your food,
your home, your freedom.
He can take away your sons
and daughters.
With one word,
Pharaoh can take away
your very lives.
But there is one thing
he cannot take away from you.
Your faith.
Believe,
for we will see God's wonders.
♪ Thus saith the Lord ♪
♪ Since you refuse to free ♪
♪ my people Since you refuse ♪
♪ Since you refuse ♪
♪ to free my people ♪
♪ All through the land of Egypt ♪
♪ I send a pestilence, a plague ♪
♪ into your house, into your bed ♪
♪ Into your streams ♪
♪ Into your streets ♪
♪ Into your drink ♪
♪ Into your bread ♪
♪ Upon your cattle ♪
♪ On your sheep ♪
♪ Upon your oxen in your field ♪
♪ Into your dreams ♪
♪ Into your sleep ♪
♪ Until you break ♪
♪ Until you yield ♪
♪ I send the swarm ♪
♪ I send the horde ♪
♪ Thus saith the Lord ♪
♪ Once I called you brother ♪
♪ Once I thought the chance ♪
♪ to make you laugh ♪
♪ Was all I ever wanted ♪
♪ I send the thunder ♪
♪ from the sky ♪
♪ I send the fire raining down ♪
♪ And even now I wish ♪
♪ that God had chose another ♪
♪ Serving as your foe ♪
♪ on his behalf ♪
♪ Is the last thing ♪
♪ that I wanted ♪
♪ I send a hail of burning ice ♪
♪ on every field, on every town ♪
♪ This was my home ♪
♪ All this pain and devastation ♪
♪ How it tortures me inside ♪
♪ All the innocent who suffer ♪
♪ From your stubbornness ♪
♪ and pride ♪
♪ I send the locusts on the wind ♪
♪ Such as the world ♪
♪ has never seen ♪
♪ On every leaf, on every stalk ♪
♪ Until there's nothing left ♪
♪ of green ♪
♪ I send my scourge ♪
♪ I send my sword ♪
♪ Thus saith the Lord ♪
♪ You who I called brother ♪
♪ Why must you call down ♪
♪ another blow ♪
♪ I send my scourge ♪
♪ I send my sword ♪
♪ Let my people go ♪
♪ Thus saith the Lord ♪
♪ You who I called brother ♪
♪ How could you have come ♪
♪ to hate me so ♪
♪ Is this what you wanted? ♪
♪ I sent the swarm ♪
♪ I sent the horde ♪
♪ Then let my heart be hardened ♪
♪ And never mind ♪
♪ how high the cost may grow ♪
♪ This will still be so ♪
♪ I will never let ♪
♪ your people go ♪
♪ Thus saith the Lord ♪
♪ I will not let your people go ♪
♪ Let my people go ♪
Ramses?
Oh. Let me guess.
You want me to
let your people go.
I hoped I would find you here.
Get out.
Ramses, we must
bring this to an end.
Ramses, please, talk to me.
We could always talk here.
This place.
So many memories.
I remember the time you
switched the heads of the gods
of the Temple of Ra.
Ah.
If I
recall correctly,
you were there switching heads
right along with me.
No, it was you.
I didn't do that.
Oh, yes, you did.
You put the hippo on the
crocodile, and the crocodile...
- On the falcon.
- Yes.
And the priest thought
it was a horrible omen,
and fasted for two months.
Father was furious.
You were always getting me
into trouble.
But then...
You were always there to
get me out of trouble again.
Why can't things be
the way they were before?
Father.
It's so dark.
I'm frightened.
Why is he here?
Isn't that the man
who did all this?
Yes.
But one must wonder
why?
Because no kingdom should be
made on the backs of slaves.
Ramses, your stubbornness
is bringing this misery
upon Egypt.
It would cease if only you
would let the Hebrews go.
I will not be dictated to.
I will not be threatened.
I am the morning
and the evening star.
I am Pharaoh.
Something else is coming.
Something much worse
than anything before.
Please, let go
of your contempt for life
before it destroys everything
you hold dear.
Think of your son.
I do.
You Hebrews have been
nothing but trouble.
My father had the right idea
about how to deal
with your people.
- Ramses...
- And I think it's time
- I finished the job.
- Ramses.
And there shall be
a great cry in all of Egypt,
such as never has been
or ever will be again.
Ramses, you bring this
upon yourself.
God has come to me again,
saying, "Take a lamb
"and with its blood,
"mark the lintel
and posts of every door.
"For tonight, I shall pass
through the land of Egypt
"and smite all the firstborn.
"But when I see the blood
upon your door,
"I will pass over you
"and the plague
shall not enter."
You and your people
have my permission to go.
Leave me!
♪ Many nights we've prayed ♪
♪ With no proof ♪
♪ anyone could hear ♪
♪ In our hearts a hopeful song ♪
♪ We barely understood ♪
♪ Now we are not afraid ♪
♪ Although we know ♪
♪ there's much to fear ♪
♪ We were moving mountains ♪
♪ Long before we knew we could ♪
♪ There can be miracles ♪
♪ When you believe ♪
♪ Though hope is frail ♪
♪ It's hard to kill ♪
♪ Who knows what miracles ♪
♪ You can achieve ♪
♪ When you believe ♪
♪ Somehow you will ♪
♪ You will when you believe ♪
♪ In this time of fear ♪
♪ When prayers so often ♪
♪ proved in vain ♪
♪ Hope seemed like ♪
♪ the summer birds ♪
♪ Too swiftly flown away ♪
♪ Yet now I'm standing here ♪
♪ Now I'm standing here ♪
♪ With heart so full ♪
♪ I can't explain ♪
♪ Seeking faith ♪
♪ and speaking words ♪
♪ I never thought I'd say ♪
♪ There can be miracles ♪
♪ When you believe ♪
♪ Though hope is frail ♪
♪ It's hard to kill ♪
♪ Who knows what miracles ♪
♪ You can achieve ♪
♪ When you believe ♪
♪ Somehow you will ♪
♪ You will when you believe ♪
♪ There can be miracles ♪
♪ When you believe ♪
♪ Though hope is frail ♪
♪ It's hard to kill ♪
♪ Who knows what miracles ♪
♪ You can achieve ♪
♪ When you believe ♪
♪ Somehow you will ♪
♪ Now you will ♪
♪ You will when you believe ♪
♪ When you believe ♪
♪ You will when you ♪
♪ Believe ♪
With this staff,
you shall do
my wonders!
Leave it!
Yeah, me too.
Don't just stand there!
Kill them!
Kill them all!
The soldiers! They're coming!
Moses! Moses!
- Hurry! Hurry! I got you.
- Look! The shore!
No!
Thank you.
Moses!
Goodbye, brother.
Look.
Look at your people, Moses.
They are free.
♪ Deliver us ♪